okay hi Jay hi Rhonda welcome to the
ichi language comm IELTS reading webinar
today we're going to look at the yes no
not given question so let's just get
straight into it let's have a look at
what this looks like all right so you'll
be given the question which says does
the following statement reflect the
claims of the writer in the reading
passage then you're given a choice of
three answers yes
if the statement reflects the claims of
the writer no if the statement
contradicts the claims of the writer or
not given if it's impossible to say what
the writer thinks about this then you're
given a list of statements so you need
to try to match whether these statements
agree with the information in the
passage so yes they they agree no they
don't agree or it's not given okay we
need to be very careful and make sure
that we read the instructions because we
don't want to get confused there's
another very similar task to this which
is the true false not given question
which is different to the yes no not
given the yes no not given which is what
we're looking at now is a based on
opinion the opinion of the writer the
true false not given is based on factual
information in the passage so we need to
be careful because if we answer just go
back if we write true instead of yes or
false instead of no we'll get a zero
point so true is not the same as yes and
you know it's not the same as false
okay any questions about this alright
what should we write on the answer sheet
good question okay so you should write
the full word of either yes/no or not
given if you just write Y or n it might
be counted as incorrect okay so if we
have a look at the instructions just go
back the instructions say does the
following information reflect the claims
of the writer right yes/no or not given
so to be safe you want to write exactly
what's given here in the instructions
all right any other questions all right
let's move on okay we're going to have a
look at a
method now for how to answer this
question type it's a four-step method
the first step is you want to focus on
the statements these are your starting
points once you focus on the first
statement you want to identify the key
words in that statement once you
identify the keywords you want to circle
or highlight them you want to make sure
that they're clearly visible to you
because you're going to use those key
words to locate the same keywords or
synonyms in the passage once you find
them in the passage you also want to
circle or highlight them this is going
to make it much easier for you to find
what you're looking for and then finally
once you've located the corresponding
key words or synonyms then it would be
easier for you to match the statement to
the sentence in the passage as either
yes/no or not given so let's apply this
method to question number one step one
focus on the statement so as we can see
there's a lot to look at here it can be
overwhelming where do we look first well
we want to look here children's
grammatical comprehension is linked with
their awareness of musical rhythm again
lots of words big ideas let's break this
down into step two which is identify the
key words so what are the key words here
children grammatical comprehension
linked awareness and musical rhythm so
we're going to talk about key words in a
moment but as you can see here all of
the key words are either nouns or verbs
so now we know exactly what to look for
in the passage so now we want to locate
those words as key words all the
synonyms so we want to scan the text we
don't want to read every word or every
line or every paragraph we're not going
to have time to do that
so now we want to just scan the
paragraph looking for these words and we
find child's musical rhythm related to
understanding and grammar okay so here
we've got child matches with children
musical rhythm is the same as musical
rhythm
we've got grammatical and grammar we've
got linked linked with which is the same
meaning as related to and we have
awareness which is the same meaning as
understanding so we need to be aware
that they're not always going to use the
exact same words they might use words
with similar meaning so now that we've
located the corresponding keywords we
know exactly which paragraph we need to
read or which part of the passage we
need to read to be able to answer yes no
or not given all right so moving on to
step four matching the information this
is where we now answer the question does
the following statement reflect the
claims of the writer yes no or not given
the statement is children's grammatical
comprehension is linked with their
awareness of musical rhythm and we found
the corresponding part of the passage
here a child's ability to distinguish
musical rhythm is related to his or her
capacity for understanding grammar does
the statement reflect the claim in the
passage yes so the answer is yes okay
any questions about finding the answer
let's move on to looking at keywords so
a main part of answering this task
successfully is identifying keywords
what are they when you're reading you're
going to be coming across a lot of dense
vocabulary and you want to be able to
identify the important parts of the
sentence so pop quiz which of these are
keywords pronouns prepositions nouns
verbs articles adjectives so ABCDE or F
who wants to have a go prepositions
okay prepositions are important little
words but they don't count as keywords
if we remove them from a sentence the
sentence still makes sense the same
thing with pronouns but I'm there good D
verbs are definitely keywords another go
there's another two options there that
are correct
good J we've got nouns
we've got verbs and we've also got
adjectives adjectives are also keywords
they help describe and give more
information all right so let's have a
look now at two types of words we've got
grammar words which are not emphasized
and keywords which are emphasized so if
we want to think of it like a brick wall
the bricks are the key words the bricks
are the main part of the wall the cement
is the part that holds the wall together
these are our grammar words like
prepositions and pronouns so if I give
you this scent
can you find the keywords for me
all right let
have a look at the keywords child
ability distinguish musical rhythm
grammar and understanding so all of the
nouns and verbs another important part
of being successful in the IELTS test is
knowing synonyms so being able to
understand or think about or recognize
words that have the same meaning as your
key words okay we have the question here
or the statement on the left children's
grammatical comprehension is linked with
their awareness of musical rhythm we
have the text here it has the same
meaning the same idea but it's using
different words how many synonyms can
you find in the text good yep
excellent ability or chart child's
ability good any more okay so let's have
a look here child children we have
grammatical comprehension it means the
same thing as understanding grammar
linked means the same thing as related
musical rhythm here they've used the
same word musical rhythm word or words
okay let's now try the second question
using our knowledge of keywords and
synonyms okay a computer program
prompted the children to judge if two
melodies were the same or different in
music rhythmic sequences give structure
- musical phrases and help listeners
find out how to move to the beat lots of
information here we want to just
identify what the keywords are so
computer program children judge melodies
rhythmic sequence structure musical
phrases help listeners move beat any
questions so far okay let's have a look
now at synonyms we have here on the left
side of the screen I don't know why my
spotlight isn't working let me try to
bring that up okay computer program can
you find a synonym in the passage on the
right for computer program software
system good the next one children well
they haven't used to synonym they've
used the same keyword what about judge
can you find a synonym for the word
judge or the verb judge okay very good
Rahul we have excellent Rhonda we have
decipher to judges to decipher excellent
what about melodies
so melodies is the same as rhythms
what about rhythmic sequence can you
find a synonym for rhythmic sequence
okay very good just breathe musical
rhythms excellent structure we have here
the word organized musical phrases a
musical phrase yes that I'm there
excellent okay piece of music help is
assist listeners move moving beat and
beat so you can see that sometimes they
will use the key words and then other
times they will use synonyms so
knowledge of vocabulary you can see is
really important in the reading part of
the IELTS test it will help you to be
able to locate the information that
you're looking for okay let's put this
into practice now step one we're going
to focus on the statement so enough
research has been done to investigate
the relationship between music and
grammar alright step two we want to
identify the key words in this statement
so what are they enough research so
enough is the adjective it describes how
much research has been done investigate
relationship music and grammar so these
are the words that we're looking for in
the text so let's scan the passage and
see if we can find them which paragraph
are they in so by using our key words
we've located the part of the passage
that we need to read we can see that we
have research and research we have
investigate and the synonym for
investigate is determine relationship we
haven't found the word relationship here
music we've got musical and grammar we
have grammar so we've got most of the
keywords and synonyms that we found from
our statement so now that we've located
the passage let's match the information
as yes/no or not given does the
following statement reflect the writer
the claims of the writer in the passage
yes/no or not given enough research has
been done to investigate the
relationship between music and grammar
and we found this is the part of the
text that is relevant to answering that
question does anyone want to have a go
at answering it who thinks the answer is
yes okay excellent Jay anyone else want
to have a go excellent very
the answer is no the statement does not
reflect the claims of the writer in the
reading passage any questions about the
no answer all clear on that one
beautiful let's move on to question
three again the first thing we want to
do is focus on the statement the
research will be implemented in schools
nationally step to identify keywords
here research implemented schools and
nationally so let's scan the text to
find the part of the passage that we
need to read music education nationally
okay let me go back so we found here the
the word nationally okay so this is
another keyword that matches and we
found education which can be a synonym
for schools does it say the same thing
does the statement reflect what's given
in the text let's see if we can match
that as yes/no or not given anyone want
to have a go at answering this excellent
Sandeep not given excellent and they're
good
so fatima has a question what's the
difference between no and not given all
right to answer no it means that this
statement has to be directly opposite to
what is said in the text with not give
the text doesn't really mention the
information in the statement so the
statement says research will be
implemented in schools nationally the
text said music education has declined
nationally over the last few decades
the research may help reverse this trend
it doesn't mention anything about
implementing the research in the schools
it just says it may help so therefore
it's impossible for us to say yes or no
here
therefore it's not given ok and yep not
given all right your turn I have a new
passage on the same topic with three new
statements I'm going to give you six
minutes to use the four-step method
focusing on the statement identifying
the key words and then scanning the text
to locate corresponding key words or
synonyms in the passage and then
matching the statement to the sentence
all right six minutes and here are your
statements here is your passage I will
start the timer now
you
okay I can see Sandeep has answered the
first two questions
okay down there you've answered question
number one good we'll talk about the
answers in a moment
all right let's have a look at the
answers first question or first
statement previous research has focused
on the effect of reading and listening
simultaneously key word previous
research focus effect reading listening
simultaneously this part or these key
words were found in the first part of
the text the first paragraph oops let me
go back okay
so let's read it the neural pathways for
language and music Shara crossroads this
has been shown in previous research but
these studies focused on the effect of
simultaneous reading and listening on
language processing does that
information match the statement in
question one yes and three of you got
that one correct so well done question
number two Broca's area of the brain
located under your left temple is
responsible for speech production all
right some of you wrote yes
some of you wrote no let's have a look
Broca's area of the brain okay we see it
here
Broca's there's our keyword reading and
listening at the same time overload the
capacity of this brain region known as
Broca's area which is located somewhere
under your left temple
now Broca's area of the brain located
under your left temple is responsible
for speech production does it tell us
anywhere in the text that the brokers
is responsible for speech production
does it tell us anywhere in the text no
okay therefore that information is not
given all right because the fact that
it's responsible for speech production
is it mentioned anywhere in the text so
we can't match that information it's
impossible for us to match that
information because it doesn't tell us
all right let's move on to three music
and language learning have mutual
positive effects now where was that down
the bottom last paragraph musical
training enhances language skills and
language training probably enhances the
neural processing of music in the same
way which means music and language
skills complement each other and have
mutual positive effects so the answer
for question three is yes so let's recap
our answers
we have no not given and yes all right
how did you go out of three most of you
got two out of three some of you've got
three out of three
well done do you have any questions
about the answers
you
good question render our answers always
in chronological order in this foursome
reading task types they are and for some
they're not with yes no not given most
of the time they will be which will make
it easier for you but for other task
types or other reading types they're not
going to be in chronological order and
so that's where using the keywords will
help you you want to try to avoid
reading a passage from beginning to end
you're not going to have a lot of time
so you want to take shortcuts and one of
the shortcuts is using the keywords and
then just scanning the passage to find
that keyword and then just focusing in
on that part of the text any other
questions
all right let's move on how do we
prepare for the IELTS test all right
so lots of people think that doing mock
tests and and practicing doing mock
tests is the best way it's a great way
to prepare but it's not the only way
what you want to do is what really focus
on building your skills so so your
skills include grammar vocabulary using
methods and shortcuts that will help you
find the information that you need then
you want to focus on building your test
strategy so not just practicing tests
but applying methods and applying
strategies to help you succeed once
you've built your skills and you know
the strategies then you can put them to
practice using the tests so what you're
practicing are your skills and your
strategies rather than just doing mock
tests and not really not really applying
those skills of strategies and then
finally getting expert feedback which is
what we're here for
oops okay how do you build your
vocabulary a lot of this has to do with
just reading reading as much as you can
using new words in writing and speaking
as much as you can
incorporating them into your own
vocabulary the next part of skill
building is improving your grammar how
to identify add adjectives adverbs nouns
verbs this will also help you in your
reading and in your writing and then
finding good practice materials so here
at e2 language comm we've developed
methods strategies and practice
materials to help you prepare for the
outs test here is an example of a
practice activity for the yes no not
given task you've got some questions
here some statements a text which is not
visible but down below and you have your
answer sheet so you can practice this
task and then get some feedback and then
finally expert tutorials with myself and
other expert outs tutors here you can
submit your writing sample writing tests
you can practice some speaking and
receive some expert feedback from an
arts tutor that will help you really
prepare for the day and improve your
scores so if you like this webinar you
can upgrade now to get some personalized
feedback to help you pass your IELTS
test okay thank you very much guys
yep feel free to visit our website have
check-out our arts channel sorry our
YouTube channel and we'll see you again
next week for the reading matching
headings task bye
you